A function is a group of statements that together perform a task. Every C program has at least one function, which is main(), and all the most trivial programs can define additional functions.

You can divide up your code into separate functions. How you divide up your code among different functions is up to you, but logically the division is such that each function performs a specific task.

A function declaration tells the compiler about a function's name, return type, and parameters. A function definition provides the actual body of the function.

The C standard library provides numerous built-in functions that your program can call. For example, strcat() to concatenate two strings, memcpy() to copy one memory location to another location, and many more functions.

A function can also be referred as a method or a sub-routine or a procedure, etc.

Defining a Function
The general form of a function definition in C programming language is as follows -

return_type function_name( parameter list ) {
   body of the function
}
A function definition in C programming consists of a function header and a function body. Here are all the parts of a function -

Return Type - A function may return a value. The return_type is the data type of the value the function returns. Some functions perform the desired operations without returning a value. In this case, the return_type is the keyword void.

Function Name - This is the actual name of the function. The function name and the parameter list together constitute the function signature.

Parameters - A parameter is like a placeholder. When a function is invoked, you pass a value to the parameter. This value is referred to as actual parameter or argument. The parameter list refers to the type, order, and number of the parameters of a function. Parameters are optional; that is, a function may contain no parameters.

Function Body - The function body contains a collection of statements that define what the function does.

Example
Given below is the source code for a function called max(). This function takes two parameters num1 and num2 and returns the maximum value between the two -

/* function returning the max between two numbers */
int max(int num1, int num2) {

   /* local variable declaration */
   int result;
 
   if (num1 > num2)
      result = num1;
   else
      result = num2;
 
   return result; 
}
Function Declarations
A function declaration tells the compiler about a function name and how to call the function. The actual body of the function can be defined separately.

A fng a function, there are two ways in which arguments can be passed to a function -

Sr.No.	Call Type & Description
1	Call by value
This method copies the actual value of an argument into the formal parameter of the function. In this case, changes made to the parameter inside the function have no effect on the argument.

2	Call by reference
This method copies the address of an argument into the formal parameter. Inside the function, the address is used to access the actual argument used in the call. This means that changes made to the parameter affect the argument.

By default, C uses call by value to pass arguments. In general, it means the code within a function cannot alter the arguments used to call the function.

 Previous Page  Print PageNext Page  
Advertisements




Tutorials Point
 About us  Refund Policy  Terms of use  Privacy Policy  FAQ's  Contact
© Copyright 2021. All Rights Reserved